bronze making, boilers (#22)
GregTechCEu/gtceu-modern-docs: docs/Gameplay/Steam/Steam-Generation.md

---
Title: Generating Steam
---

# Generating Steam

## Early game

For early game steam generation you have two options:

### Boilers
 * Liquid - allowing you to use hot liquids like lava. To heat up water and get steam.
 * Solid - uses coal to heat up the water.
### Solar Boilers
 * generate steam from solar boilers _doesn't work at night_.

For water you can use a **primitive pump**
![Primitive water pump](./assets/p_water_pump.png)

or use a water connection from any other mod.

## After Steel

> After unlocking steam with a primitive blast furnace you will get access to the high pressure versions of the boilers and allow you to produce more steam.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After unlocking steel (using a primitive blast furnace) you will get access to the high pressure versions of the boilers and allow you to produce more steam.
```

## Large Boilers 

> Large boilers allow you to create massive amount of steam in the blink of an eye. A boiler can be constructed of many different GT materials, that will allow for different steam generation rates (_consult the table bellow_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Large boilers allow you to create massive amount of steam in the blink of an eye. A boiler can be constructed of many different GT materials, that will allow for different steam generation rates (_consult the table below_).
```
